





Network Working Group                                       Paul Congdon
INTERNET-DRAFT                                   Hewlett Packard Company
Category: Informational                                    Bernard Aboba
<draft-congdon-radius-8021x-10.txt>                            Tim Moore
1 February 2001                                           Ashwin Palekar
                                                               Microsoft
                                                            Andrew Smith
                                                        Extreme Networks
                                                               Glen Zorn
                                                             Dave Halasz
                                                           Cisco Systems
                                                               Andrea Li
                                                         Albert P. Young
                                                                    3Com
                                                              John Roese
                                                               Enterasys


                  IEEE 802.1X RADIUS Usage Guidelines

This document is an Internet-Draft and is in full conformance with all
provisions of Section 10 of RFC2026.

Internet-Drafts are working documents of the Internet Engineering Task
Force (IETF), its areas, and its working groups.  Note that other groups
may also distribute working documents as Internet- Drafts.

Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six months
and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents at any
time.  It is inappropriate to use Internet-Drafts as reference material
or to cite them other than as "work in progress."

The list of current Internet-Drafts can be accessed at
http://www.ietf.org/ietf/1id-abstracts.txt

The list of Internet-Draft Shadow Directories can be accessed at
http://www.ietf.org/shadow.html.

1.  Copyright Notice

Copyright (C) The Internet Society (2001).  All Rights Reserved.

2.  Abstract

IEEE 802.1X enables authenticated access to IEEE 802 media, including
Ethernet, Token Ring, and 802.11 wireless LANs.  Although RADIUS support
is optional within IEEE 802.1X, it is expected that many IEEE 802.1X
Authenticators will function as RADIUS clients.



Congdon, et al.               Informational                     [Page 1]





INTERNET-DRAFT     IEEE 802.1X RADIUS Usage Guidelines   1 February 2001


This document provides suggestions on RADIUS usage by IEEE 802.1X
Authenticators. It is currently being developed within the IEEE 802.1X
working group and is being presented to the IETF for informational
purposes.

3.  Introduction

IEEE 802.1X [13] enables authenticated access to IEEE 802 media,
including Ethernet, Token Ring, and 802.11 wireless LANs.  Although
RADIUS support is optional within IEEE 802.1X, it is expected that many
IEEE 802.1X Authenticators will function as RADIUS clients.

This document provides suggestions on RADIUS usage by IEEE 802.1X
Authenticators. It is currently being developed within the IEEE 802.1X
working group and is being presented to the IETF for informational
purposes.

3.1.  Terminology

This document uses the following terms:

Authenticator
          An Authenticator is an entity that require authentication from
          the Supplicant. The Authenticator may be connected to the
          Supplicant at the other end of a point-to-point LAN segment or
          802.11 wireless link.

Authentication Server
          An Authentication Server is an entity that provides an
          Authentication Service to an Authenticator. This service
          verifies from the credentials provided by the Supplicant, the
          claim of identity made by the Supplicant.

Port Access Entity (PAE)
          The protocol entity associated with a physical or virtual
          (802.11) Port.  A given PAE may support the protocol
          functionality associated with the Authenticator, Supplicant or
          both.

Supplicant
          A Supplicant is an entity that is being authenticated by an
          Authenticator. The Supplicant may be connected to the
          Authenticator at one end of a point-to-point LAN segment or
          802.11 wireless link.







Congdon, et al.               Informational                     [Page 2]





INTERNET-DRAFT     IEEE 802.1X RADIUS Usage Guidelines   1 February 2001


3.2.  Requirements language

In this document, the key words "MAY", "MUST,  "MUST  NOT",  "optional",
"recommended",  "SHOULD",  and  "SHOULD  NOT",  are to be interpreted as
described in [3].

4.  RADIUS accounting attributes

With a few exceptions, the RADIUS accounting attributes defined in [5]
and [6] have the same meaning within IEEE 802.1X sessions as they do in
dialup sessions and therefore no additional commentary is needed.

Attributes requiring more discussion include:

   Acct-Terminate-Cause
   Acct-Multi-Session-Id
   Acct-Link-Count

4.1.  Acct-Terminate-Cause

This attribute indicates how the session was terminated, as described in
[5]. As described in [13], IEEE 802.1X defines the following termination
cause values, which are shown with their RADIUS equivalents in the
following table:

IEEE 802.1X                         RADIUS
dot1xAuthSessionTerminateCause      Acct-Terminate-Cause
Value                               Value
-------------                       --------------------
supplicantLogoff(1)                 User Request (1)
portFailure(2)                      Lost Carrier (2)
supplicantRestart(3)                Supplicant Restart (19)
reauthFailed(4)                     Reauthentication Failure (20)
authControlForceUnauth(5)           Admin Reset (6)
portReInit(6)                       Port Reinitialized (21)
portAdminDisabled(7)                Port Administratively Disabled (22)
notTerminatedYet(999)               N/A

When using this attribute, the User Request (1) termination cause
corresponds to the situation in which the session terminated due to an
EAPOL-Logoff received from the Supplicant.  When a session is moved due
to roaming, the EAPOL state machines will treat this as a Supplicant
Logoff.

A Lost Carrier (2) termination cause indicates session termination due
to loss of physical connectivity for reasons other than roaming. For
example, if the Supplicant disconnects a point-to-point LAN connection,
or moves out of range of an 802.11 Access Point, this termination cause



Congdon, et al.               Informational                     [Page 3]





INTERNET-DRAFT     IEEE 802.1X RADIUS Usage Guidelines   1 February 2001


is used.  Lost Carrier (2) therefore equates to a Port Disabled
condition in the EAPOL state machines.

A Supplicant Restart (19) termination cause indicates re-initialization
of the Supplicant state machines.

A Reauthentication Failure (20) termination cause indicates that a
previously authenticated Supplicant has failed to re-authenticate
successfully following expiry of the reauthentication timer or explicit
reauthentication request by management action.

An Admin Reset(6) termination cause indicates that the Port has been
administratively forced into the unauthorized state.

A Port Reinitialized (21) termination cause indicates that the Port's
MAC has been reinitialized.

A Port Administratively Disabled (22) termination cause indicates that
the Port has been administratively disabled.

4.2.  Acct-Multi-Session-Id

The purpose of this attribute is to make it possible to link together
multiple related sessions. While IEEE 802.1X does not act on aggregated
ports, it is possible for a Supplicant roaming between IEEE 802.11
Access Points to cause multiple RADIUS accounting packets to be sent by
different Access Points.

Where supported by the Access Points, the Acct-Multi-Session-Id
attribute is used to link together the multiple related sessions of a
roaming Supplicant.  It is assumed that the Acct-Multi-Session-Id is
transferred between the Access Points as part of the Inter-Access Point
Protocol.

If Acct-Multi-Session-Id were not unique between Access Points, then it
is possible that the chosen Acct-Multi-Session-Id might overlap with an
existing value allocated on that Access Point and the Accounting Server
would therefore be unable to distinguish a roaming session from a multi-
link session.

As a result, it is required that the Acct-Multi-Session-Id attribute be
unique among all the Access Points, Supplicants and sessions. In order
to provide this uniqueness, it is suggested that the Acct-Multi-Session-
Id be of the form:

Original Access-Point MAC Address | Supplicant MAC Address | NTP Timestamp

Here the original Access-Point MAC Address is the MAC address of the



Congdon, et al.               Informational                     [Page 4]





INTERNET-DRAFT     IEEE 802.1X RADIUS Usage Guidelines   1 February 2001


Access Point (in binary form) at which the session started, and the
32-bit NTP timestamp indicates the beginning of the original session. In
order to provide for consistency of the Acct-Multi-Session-Id between
802.11 roaming sessions, the multi-session-id may be moved between
Access Points as part of an inter-access point protocol.

The use of Acct-Multi-Session-Id of this form guarantees uniqueness
among all Access Points, Supplicants and sessions. Since the NTP
timestamp does not wrap on reboot, there is no possibility that a
rebooted Access Point could choose an Acct-Multi-Session-Id that could
be confused with that of a previous session.

4.3.  Acct-Link-Count

Since IEEE 802.1X does not act on aggregated ports, there is no
equivalent to PPP multi-link bundles, and this attribute is not useful
for IEEE 802.1X authenticators.

5.  RADIUS authentication

The following attributes defined in [4] and [6] appear relevant for use
by IEEE 802.1X authenticators acting as RADIUS clients:

   User-Name
   NAS-IP-Address
   NAS-Port
   Service-Type
   Framed-Routing
   Filter-Id
   Framed-MTU
   Reply-Message
   Framed-Route
   State
   Class
   Vendor-Specific
   Session-Timeout
   Idle-Timeout
   Termination-Action
   Called-Station-ID
   Calling-Station-ID
   NAS-Identifier
   Proxy-State
   NAS-Port-Type
   Password-Retry
   Connect-Info
   EAP-Message
   Message-Authenticator
   NAS-Port-Id



Congdon, et al.               Informational                     [Page 5]





INTERNET-DRAFT     IEEE 802.1X RADIUS Usage Guidelines   1 February 2001


   Tunnel-attributes

5.1.  User-Name

In IEEE 802.1X, the supplicant typically provides its identity via an
EAP-Response/Identity message.  Where available, the supplicant identity
is included in the User-Name attribute, and included in the RADIUS
Access-Request and Access-Reply messages as specified in [4].

Alternatively, where Service-Type=Call Check, the User-Name attribute
contains the Calling-Station-ID value, which is set to the Supplicant
MAC address.

5.2.  User-Password, CHAP-Password, CHAP-Challenge

Since IEEE 802.1X does not support PAP or CHAP authentication, the User-
Password, CHAP-Password or CHAP-Challenge attributes are not used by
IEEE 802.1X authenticators acting as RADIUS clients.

5.3.  NAS-IP-Address

For use with IEEE 802.1X, the NAS-IP-Address contains the IPv4 address
of the bridge or Access Point acting as an Authenticator. If the IEEE
802.1X authenticator has more than one interface, it may be desirable to
use a loopback address for this purpose so that the Authenticator will
still be reachable even if one of the interfaces were to fail.

5.4.  NAS-Port

For use with IEEE 802.1X the NAS-Port will contain the port number of
the bridge, if this is available.  While an 802.11 Access Point does not
have physical ports, it does assign a unique "association ID" to every
mobile station upon a successful association exchange. As a result, for
an 802.11 Access Point, the NAS-Port attribute will contain the
association ID, which is a 16-bit unsigned integer.

5.5.  Service-Type

For use with IEEE 802.1X, only the Framed (2), Authenticate Only (8),
and Call Check (10) values have meaning.

A Service-Type of Framed indicates that appropriate 802 framing should
be used for the connection. A Service-Type of Authenticate Only (8)
indicates that no authorization information needs to be returned in the
Access-Accept. As described in [4], a Service-Type of Call Check is
included in an Access-Request packet to request that the RADIUS server
accept or reject the connection attempt, typically based on the Called-
Station-ID (set to the bridge or Access Point MAC address) or Calling-



Congdon, et al.               Informational                     [Page 6]





INTERNET-DRAFT     IEEE 802.1X RADIUS Usage Guidelines   1 February 2001


Station-ID attributes (set to the supplicant MAC address). As noted in
[4] it is recommended that in this case the User-Name attribute be given
the value of Calling-Station-Id.

5.6.  Framed-Protocol

Since there is no value for 802 media, the Framed-Protocol attribute is
not used by IEEE 802.1X authenticators.

5.7.  Framed-IP-Address, Framed-IP-Netmask

Since IEEE 802.1X does not provide a mechanism for IP address
assignment, the Framed-IP-Address and Framed-IP-Netmask attributes are
not used by IEEE 802.1X authenticators.

5.8.  Framed-Routing

The Framed-Routing attribute indicates the routing method for the
supplicant. It is therefore only relevant for IEEE 802.1X authenticators
that act as layer 3 devices, and cannot be used by a bridge or Access
Point.

5.9.  Filter-ID

This attribute indicates the name of the filter list for the supplicant.
For use with an IEEE 802.1X authenticator, it may be used to indicate
either layer 2 or layer 3 filters.

5.10.  Framed-MTU

This attribute indicates the maximum size of an IP packet that may be
transmitted over the wire between the Supplicant and the Authenticator.
IEEE 802.1X authenticators set this to the value corresponding to the
relevant 802 medium, and include it in the RADIUS Access-Request. For
EAP over IEEE 802 media, the Framed-MTU values (which do not include
LLC/SNAP overhead) and maximum frame length values (not including the
preamble) are as follows:

                                     Maximum Frame
Media             Framed-MTU            Length
=========        ===============     ==============
Ethernet              1500              1522
802.3                 1500              1522
802.4                 8174              8193
802.5 (4 Mbps)        4528              4550
802.5 (16 Mbps)      18173             18200
802.5 (100 Mb/s)     18173             18200
802.6                 9191              9240



Congdon, et al.               Informational                     [Page 7]





INTERNET-DRAFT     IEEE 802.1X RADIUS Usage Guidelines   1 February 2001


802.9a                1500              1518
802.11                2304              2346
802.12 (Ethernet)     1500              1518
802.12 (Token Ring)   4502              4528
FDDI                  4479              4500

5.11.  Framed-Compression

IEEE 802.1X does not include compression support so that this attribute
is not understood by 802.1X Authenticators.

5.12.  Reply-Message

This attribute is used to indicate text which MAY be displayed to the
user. An IEEE 802.1X authenticator receiving this attribute includes the
String within an EAP-Request/Notification message sent to the
supplicant.

5.13.  Callback-Number, Callback-ID

These attributes are not understood by IEEE 802.1X Authenticators.

5.14.  Framed-Route

The Framed-Route attribute provides routes that are to be configured for
the supplicant. It is therefore only relevant for IEEE 802.1X
Authenticators that act as layer 3 devices, and cannot be understood by
a bridge or Access Point.

5.15.  State, Class, Vendor-Specific, Proxy-State

These attributes are used for the same purposes as described in [4].

5.16.  Session-Timeout

If Session-Timeout attribute is included in an Access-Accept, a
Termination-Action attribute MUST also be sent along with it.  When sent
in an Access-Accept, the Session-Timeout attribute specifies the maximum
number of seconds of service provided prior to re-authentication. In
this case, the Session-Timeout attribute is used to load the
reAuthPeriod constant within the Reauthentication Timer state machine of
802.1X.

As described in [6], when sent in an Access-Challenge, this attribute
represents the maximum number of seconds that an IEEE 802.1X
authenticator should wait for an EAP-Response before retransmitting.  In
this case, the Session-Timeout attribute is used to load the suppTimeout
constant within the Backend state machine of 802.1X.



Congdon, et al.               Informational                     [Page 8]





INTERNET-DRAFT     IEEE 802.1X RADIUS Usage Guidelines   1 February 2001


5.17.  Idle-Timeout

For IEEE 802 media other than 802.11 there is no concept of an idle
timeout since the media are always on. As a result the Idle-Timeout
attribute is relevant only for 802.11. It is possible for an 802.11
device to wander out of range of all access points. In this case, the
Idle-Timeout attribute indicates the maximum time that an 802.11 device
may remain idle.

5.18.  Termination-Action

This attribute indicates what action should be taken when the service is
completed. Only a value of RADIUS-Request(1) is valid for use with IEEE
802.1X. This indicates that re-authentication should occur on expiration
of the Session-Time.

5.19.  Called-Station-Id

For IEEE 802.1X authenticators, this attribute is used to store the
bridge or Access Point MAC address in ASCII format, with octet values
separated by a "-". Example: "00-10-A4-23-19-C0".

5.20.  Calling-Station-Id

For IEEE 802.1X authenticators, this attribute is used to store the
supplicant MAC address in ASCII format, with octet values separated by a
"-". Example: "00-10-A4-23-19-C0".

5.21.  NAS-Identifier

This attribute contains a string identifying the IEEE 802.1X
Authenticator originating the Access-Request.

5.22.  NAS-Port-Type

For use with IEEE 802.1X, NAS-Port-Type values of Ethernet (15) Wireless
- IEEE 802.11 (19), Token Ring (20) and FDDI (21) may be used.

5.23.  Port-Limit

This attribute has no meaning when sent to an IEEE 802.1X Authenticator.

5.24.  Password-Retry

In IEEE 802.1X, the Authenticator always transitions to the HELD state
after an authentication failure. Thus this attribute does not make sense
for IEEE 802.1X.




Congdon, et al.               Informational                     [Page 9]





INTERNET-DRAFT     IEEE 802.1X RADIUS Usage Guidelines   1 February 2001


5.25.  Connect-Info

This attribute is sent by a bridge or Access Point to indicate the
nature of the Supplicant's connection. When sent in the Access-Request
it is recommended that this attribute contain information on the speed
of the Supplicant's connection. For 802.11, the following format is
recommended: "CONNECT 11Mbps 802.11b". If sent in the Accounting STOP,
this attribute may be used to summarize statistics relating to session
quality. For example, in IEEE 802.11, the Connect-Info attribute may
contain  information on the number of link layer retransmissions. The
exact format of this attribute is implementation specific.

5.26.  EAP-Message

Since IEEE 802.1X provides for encapsulation of EAP as described in [1]
and [13], the EAP-Message attribute is used to encapsulate EAP packets
for transmission from the IEEE 802.1X Authenticator to the
Authentication Server.

5.27.  Message-authenticator

As noted in [6], the Message-Authenticator attribute MUST be used to
protect all packets containing an EAP-Message attribute.

5.28.  NAS-Port-Id

This attribute is used to identify the IEEE 802.1X Authenticator port
which authenticates the Supplicant.  The NAS-Port-Id differs from the
NAS-Port in that it is a string of variable length whereas the NAS-Port
is a 4 octet value.

5.29.  Framed-Pool

Since IEEE 802.1X does not support address assignment, this attribute
has no meaning to an IEEE 802.1X Authenticator.

5.30.  Tunnel attributes

Reference [20] defines RADIUS tunnel attributes used for authentication
and authorization, and reference [21] defines tunnel attributes used for
accounting. Where the IEEE 802.1X Authenticator supports tunneling, a
compulsory tunnel may be set up for the Supplicant as a result of the
authentication.

In particular, it may be desirable to allow a Supplicant to be placed
into a particular Virtual LAN (VLAN) based on the result of the
authentication. The RADIUS server typically indicates the desired VLAN
by including tunnel attributes within the Access-Accept. However, the



Congdon, et al.               Informational                    [Page 10]





INTERNET-DRAFT     IEEE 802.1X RADIUS Usage Guidelines   1 February 2001


IEEE 802.1X Authenticator may also provide a hint as to the VLAN to be
assigned to the Supplicant by including Tunnel attributes within the
Access-Request. For use in VLAN assignment, the following tunnel
attributes are sent:

Tunnel-Type=VLAN (13)
Tunnel-Medium-Type=802
Tunnel-Private-Group-ID=VLANID

Note that the VLANID is 12-bits, taking a value between 0 and 4095,
inclusive. Since the Tunnel-Private-Group-ID is of type String as
defined in [20], for use with IEEE 802.1X, the VLANID is encoded as a
string, rather than an integer.

6.  Security considerations

Since this draft describes the use of RADIUS for purposes of
authentication authorization and accounting in IEEE 802.1X-enabled
networks, it is vulnerable to all of the threats that are present in
other RADIUS applications,  with one exception. For a discussion of
these threats, see [6].

Since IEEE 802.1X does not support PAP or CHAP authentication, the
RADIUS User-Password hiding mechanism is not utilized to hide user
passwords. As noted in [18], there are doubts about the security of this
mechanism.

Note that RFC 2869 [6] does not require that the EAP packet encapsulated
in an EAP-Message attribute agree with the outcome of the
authentication, or even that an EAP-Message attribute be included in an
Access-Accept or Access-Reject. For example, an EAP-Success can be
encapsulated in an Access-Reject, or an EAP-Failure can be encapsulated
within an Access-Accept.

As a result, in order to ensure that access decisions made by IEEE
802.1X Authenticators conform to the wishes of the RADIUS server, it is
necessary for the Authenticator to make the decision solely based on the
authentication result (Accept/Reject) and NOT based on the contents of
the EAP packet encapsulated in one or more EAP-Message attributes, if
one is present at all.

7.  References


[1]  Blunk, L., Vollbrecht, J., "PPP Extensible Authentication Protocol
     (EAP)", RFC 2284, March 1998.





Congdon, et al.               Informational                    [Page 11]





INTERNET-DRAFT     IEEE 802.1X RADIUS Usage Guidelines   1 February 2001


[2]  Rivest, R., Dusse, S., "The MD5 Message-Digest Algorithm", RFC
     1321, April 1992.

[3]  Bradner, S., "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement
     Levels", RFC 2119, March, 1997.

[4]  Rigney, C., Rubens, A., Simpson, W., Willens, S.,  "Remote
     Authentication Dial In User Service (RADIUS)", RFC 2865, June 2000.

[5]  Rigney, C., "RADIUS Accounting", RFC 2866, June 2000.

[6]  Rigney, C., Willats, W., Calhoun, P., "RADIUS Extensions", RFC
     2869, June 2000.

[7]  IEEE Standards for Local and Metropolitan Area Networks: Overview
     and Architecture, ANSI/IEEE Std 802, 1990.

[8]  ISO/IEC 10038 Information technology - Telecommunications and
     information exchange between systems - Local area networks - Media
     Access Control (MAC) Bridges, (also ANSI/IEEE Std 802.1D- 1993),
     1993.

[9]  ISO/IEC Final CD 15802-3 Information technology - Tele-
     communications and information exchange between systems - Local and
     metropolitan area networks - Common specifications - Part 3:Media
     Access Control (MAC) bridges, (current draft available as IEEE
     P802.1D/D15).

[10] IEEE Standards for Local and Metropolitan Area Networks: Draft
     Standard for Virtual Bridged Local Area Networks, P802.1Q/D8,
     January 1998.

[11] ISO/IEC 8802-3 Information technology - Telecommunications and
     information exchange between systems - Local and metropolitan area
     networks - Common specifications - Part 3:  Carrier Sense Multiple
     Access with Collision Detection (CSMA/CD) Access Method and
     Physical Layer Specifications, (also ANSI/IEEE Std 802.3- 1996),
     1996.

[12] IEEE Standards for Local and Metropolitan Area Networks: Demand
     Priority Access Method, Physical Layer and Repeater Specification
     For 100 Mb/s Operation, IEEE Std 802.12-1995.

[13] IEEE Standards for Local and Metropolitan Area Networks: Port based
     Network Access Control, IEEE Draft 802.1X/D10, January 2001.

[14] Droms, R., "Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol", RFC 2131, March
     1997.



Congdon, et al.               Informational                    [Page 12]





INTERNET-DRAFT     IEEE 802.1X RADIUS Usage Guidelines   1 February 2001


[15] Yergeau, F., "UTF-8, a transformation format of Unicode and ISO
     10646", RFC 2044, October 1996.

[16] Aboba, B., Beadles, M., "The Network Access Identifier", RFC 2486,
     January 1999.

[17] Alvestrand, H. and T. Narten, "Guidelines for Writing an IANA
     Considerations Section in RFCs", BCP 26, RFC 2434, October 1998.

[18] Dobbertin, H., "The Status of MD5 After a Recent Attack."
     CryptoBytes Vol.2 No.2, Summer 1996.

[19] Atkinson, R., "Security Architecture for the Internet Protocol",
     RFC 1825, August 1995.

[20] Zorn, G., Leifer, D., Rubens, A., Shriver, J., Holdrege, M.,
     Goyret, I., "RADIUS Attributes for Tunnel Protocol Support", RFC
     2868, June 2000.

[21] Zorn, G., Mitton, D., Aboba, B., "RADIUS Accounting Modifications
     for Tunnel Protocol Support", RFC 2867, June 2000.

[22] Information technology - Telecommunications and information
     exchange between systems - Local and metropolitan area networks -
     Specific Requirements Part 11:  Wireless LAN Medium Access Control
     (MAC) and Physical Layer (PHY) Specifications, IEEE Std.
     802.11-1997, 1997.

8.  IANA Considerations

This specification does not create any RADIUS attributes nor any new
number spaces for IANA administration. However, it does require
assignment of new values to existing RADIUS attributes. These include:

Attribute              Values Required
=========              ===============
NAS-Port-Type          Token-Ring (20), FDDI (21)
Tunnel-Type            VLAN (13)
Acct-Terminate-Cause   Supplicant Restart (19)
                       Reauthentication Failure (20)
                       Port Reinitialized (21)
                       Port Administratively Disabled (22)

9.  Acknowledgments

The authors would like to acknowledge Bob O'Hara of Informed Technology
and Dave Bagby of 3Com for contributions to this document.




Congdon, et al.               Informational                    [Page 13]





INTERNET-DRAFT     IEEE 802.1X RADIUS Usage Guidelines   1 February 2001


10.  Authors' Addresses

Paul Congdon
Hewlett Packard Company
HP ProCurve Networking
3000 Hanover Street
Palo Alto, CA 94304

Phone: +1 916 785 5753
Fax:  +1 916 785 5949
Email: PAUL_CONGDON@hp.com

Andrew Smith
Allegro Networks
6399 San Ignacio Ave.
San Jose, CA 95119

Fax: +1 415 345 1827
Email: andrew@allegronetworks.com

Albert P. Young
3Com Corporation
5400 Bayfront Plaza
P.O. Box 58145, M/S: 4204
Santa Clara CA 95052-8145

Phone: +1 408 326 6435
Fax:   +1 408 326 5855
Email: Albert_Young@3com.com

Andrea Li
3Com Corporation
10545 Willows Rd. NE
M/S: Suite 110 - First Floor
Redmond, WA 98052

Phone: +1 425 498 8213
Fax:   +1 425 498 8201
Email: Andrea_Li@3com.com

John Roese
Enterasys

Email: jjr@enterasys.com
Phone: +1 603 337 1506

Glen Zorn
Cisco Systems, Inc.



Congdon, et al.               Informational                    [Page 14]





INTERNET-DRAFT     IEEE 802.1X RADIUS Usage Guidelines   1 February 2001


500 108th Avenue N.E., Suite 500
Bellevue, WA 98004

Phone: +1 425 438 8218
Fax:   +1 425 438 1848
Email: gwz@cisco.com

Dave Halasz
Cisco Systems

Email: dhala@cisco.com

Bernard Aboba
Ashwin Palekar
Tim Moore
Microsoft Corporation
One Microsoft Way
Redmond, WA 98052

EMail: {bernarda, ashwinp, timmoore}@microsoft.com
Phone: +1 425 882 8080
Fax:   +1 425 936 7329

11.  Intellectual Property Statement

The IETF takes no position regarding the validity or scope of any
intellectual property or other rights that might be claimed to  pertain
to the implementation or use of the technology described in this
document or the extent to which any license under such rights might or
might not be available; neither does it represent that it has made any
effort to identify any such rights.  Information on the IETF's
procedures with respect to rights in standards-track and standards-
related documentation can be found in BCP-11.  Copies of claims of
rights made available for publication and any assurances of licenses to
be made available, or the result of an attempt made to obtain a general
license or permission for the use of such proprietary rights by
implementors or users of this specification can be obtained from the
IETF Secretariat.

The IETF invites any interested party to bring to its attention any
copyrights, patents or patent applications, or other proprietary rights
which may cover technology that may be required to practice this
standard.  Please address the information to the IETF Executive
Director.







Congdon, et al.               Informational                    [Page 15]





INTERNET-DRAFT     IEEE 802.1X RADIUS Usage Guidelines   1 February 2001


12.  Full Copyright Statement

Copyright (C) The Internet Society (2001).  All Rights Reserved.
This document and translations of it may be copied and furnished to
others, and derivative works that comment on or otherwise explain it or
assist in its implementation may be prepared, copied, published and
distributed, in whole or in part, without restriction of any kind,
provided that the above copyright notice and this paragraph are included
on all such copies and derivative works.  However, this document itself
may not be modified in any way, such as by removing the copyright notice
or references to the Internet Society or other Internet organizations,
except as needed for the purpose of developing Internet standards in
which case the procedures for copyrights defined in the Internet
Standards process must be followed, or as required to translate it into
languages other than English.  The limited permissions granted above are
perpetual and will not be revoked by the Internet Society or its
successors or assigns.  This document and the information contained
herein is provided on an "AS IS" basis and THE INTERNET SOCIETY AND THE
INTERNET ENGINEERING TASK FORCE DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO ANY WARRANTY THAT THE USE OF THE
INFORMATION HEREIN WILL NOT INFRINGE ANY RIGHTS OR ANY IMPLIED
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE."

13.  Expiration Date

This memo is filed as <draft-congdon-radius-8021x-10.txt>,  and  expires
October 1, 2001.
























Congdon, et al.               Informational                    [Page 16]


